# Black Surge Night -                     Cleveland Character Analysis

## 1.0 Introduction

Cleveland is the lead ship of the Cleveland class of Light Cruisers, in Black Surge Night, she belongs to the Silver Wing Foundation, which is the faction symbolizing the United States.

Cleveland was introduced to the game as an SSR rarity Light Cruiser ever since the beginning of the game but was first put up as a permanent character during the "Good Ball Hit" event along with an increased rate.

She’s illustrated by [LLC](https://www.weibo.com/u/1905040855), alongside the 3 Atlanta-Class that is in the game. She is voiced by [Shizuka Ito](https://myanimelist.net/people/93/Shizuka_Itou/), like Unicorn of Black Surge Night, Littorio, Mogami, etc. from Azur Lane.

## 2.0 Character Analysis

### 2.1 Character Design

Cleveland just like the other characters from Black Surge Night, features two distinct different forms, of which both are discussed accordingly, the former discussing her Default character and the latter discussing her post-Abyssal character.

#### I. Default

Cleveland features very long bleach-blonde hair with a singular red stripe, tied with an Anchor design, she has blue eyes and earrings with red and white colors in a diagonal cut pattern.

Cleveland wears a Varsity jacket colored in Navy Blue, Haze-Grey-and-Underway, and Black & White, featured on her left chest, is the USN insignia or the Ship's insignia depending on the CG, along with a star pattern that is split in the middle, has a false collar, and a small square scarf under, flying the tri-color pattern of the United States flag. Along with this an aigullete cord.

Under her jacket, she wears a sports bra split into blue and black, with buckled pins and a star decor on a grey piece of clothing just below her bra. She wears fishnets, and loose socks which seem to be a covering pair as her actual socks are found under that which features protruding metal spikes on the side, a bandaid on her right leg, all under her long tulip skirt which is held by a belt, another star pattern is also featured on her skirt.

She wears fingerless knuckled gloves, her nails painted Blue with the exception of her Index fingernail being painted Red. She wears sports shoes which can also be a part of her rigging.

Her rigging is very asymmetrical compared to other shipgirls from the same illustrator, featuring a majority of the guns the real ship had, with the exception of the AA guns as only the bow-mounted 20mm Oerlikons are present. Cleveland has a metal bat, featuring yet another red and blue pattern, though with a single black stripe.
Her rigging takes the form of Cleveland’s configuration from late 1942 onwards due to the presence of the Bow mounted 20mm Oerlikons


#### II. Post-Abyssal

Cleveland's Abyssal features a Black and deep Blue palette. With her hair having changed to Platinum Blonde and her eyes now inhibiting a pale-red color, the red highlight found on her hair has now changed to a black color which can now be found on both sides of her hair, and so is her earrings now taking the shape of a four-pointed star.

She has an asymmetrical cape similar to that of [Azur Lane’s Montpelier](https://kansenindex.dev/cg_info?id=65e4bdc85a1ad43fa83dd90c), though originating from a spiky  collar, with the outside colored black and insides colored white, on the outside, features large starry patterns and a glitchy blue gradient on the lower end.

Under this, she wears an opened-up soft leather black jacket with a blue interior color, lined up with 4 stars, with the zipper also being a star. She wears a fishnet top and a short leather skirt.

She now wears black high heels with the sole colored deep blue, her gloves now feature a direct contrast to her Default CG with only her fingers being covered except her left thumb having a black ring.
>Belief in palmistry could connect her wearing this black ring on her left thumb to her new-earned freedom post-Abyssifcation, unbounded by militarist authority, mostly plausible when taking into account the unfortunate lore of the shipgirls in the game. Or could possibly be an add-on to the very American theme of freedom. (insert patriotism here)


Her rigging features a more alien look, geometric in ways, and inhibiting the same black and deep blue theme, with markings of the ship all throughout her rigging (markings like her hull number 423, her designation 55, and her Call sign NICM), with flat strings of glitchy blue patterns connected from here and fro, her metal bat now too, uses the same color palette as her theme. the left side of her rigging features laser-like weaponry, her chibi animation shows how her entire rigging is able to fuse with her metal bat which she effortlessly swings. 

#### III. Featured Skins

Cleveland has a skin named [_The Night Scales of Madness Skin_](https://kansenindex.dev/cg_info?id=65e4bdc85a1ad43fa83de071) which shows her in a very revealing idol themed skin... and she has a cute top hat C:

#### IV. Unreleased Contents

Cleveland unfortunately has an [unrelased Oath Skin](https://www.facebook.com/photo/?fbid=502491038374031&set=pcb.1089954364981131) that was only revealed after the NDA for the game ceased to take effect, showing her in a very traditional abyssified look with pale skin.

### 2.2 Character Review

Cleveland has an interesting big sister character beneath her cool looks that is shown throughout her interactions from voice lines to her entire relationship story, this chapter makes use of only source materials such as official account posts, archived in-game stories, archived voice lines, in order to keep originality and homage to her character.

#### 2.2.1 Voicelines, and Source Materials

Cleveland belongs to a large group class of ship girls, although out of the 26 sisters her real-world counterpart has, and with the short lifespan of the game, unfortunately, buried with it how many sisters she had in Black Surge Night, besides Columbia, which is another obtainable character in-game.

Cleveland and Columbia themselves are under another title named _“Maritime Jockeys"_ which is a Bond Effect giving the two slight offensive and defensive stat buffs, though it is unconfirmed whether this is a name that is shared among all her sisters.
>“Sister, please calm down” -Columbia’s hidden voice line if the player has Cleveland.

Cleveland herself has a very open, caring, and straightforward personality, though her straightforwardness is more prevalent during her relationship lines. She is very caring towards her sisters, and people who are close to her, this is the most common attribute of Cleveland that is shown when interacting with her, having multiple voice lines where she even tries to encourage the commander to protect her sisters with her, even going so far as to optimizing her combat capabilities in order to protect them.

[As per the X (formerly Twitter) announcement post](https://x.com/blacksurgenight/status/1394593606262947840?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1394593606262947840%7Ctwgr%5Ef277b39f660b5e253456d4ef9d7ee8fcfd0f38f5%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fkuroshio.wikiru.jp%2F%3FE382AFE383AAE383BCE38396E383A9E383B3E38389), Cleveland is stated to be the most active shipgirls in the Silver Wing faction along with her sisters, she has helped a lot of people, most often, not asking for anything in return.

As per the Faction Story, Cleveland has been stated to have been trained by California, posing as their instructor before she became an abyssal. Meeting her unfortunate end by Cleveland’s hands herself during _Silver Wing Foundation - Little Rock Port - Hunting Behavior part 5_
>“...Thank you for your hard work Senpai… Thank you for everything, I’ll see you again… Goodbye…” -Cleveland

Cleveland’s combat capabilities are at the extremes for a ship girl of her type, despite being a light cruiser, she is capable of taking the fight to even Battleships, coming out victorious, her voice lines and overall combat behavior hint to extreme resilience and a peculiar attitude when it comes to fighting, preferring fights that are one to one. Although inhibiting battle-hungry behavior when she's in battle, she does her best to keep fights short. 
Her reckless delinquent looks can be a deception. The way she was able to take down the rampaging California was through intensely calculated moves, which are usually not associated with reckless delinquents... Unless it's a cool anime character… And Cleveland is cool!
>“Cleveland listens to everything on the battlefield, the sound of the wind, the sound of the waves, the sound of artillery fire, the sound of engines, and even the faint sways of water.”

Cleveland has hinted at always breaking her bat, be it by accident or not, with one voice line of hers having her joyfully anticipating a new metal bat as a gift from the commander. And one having her glad to have found a new bat.
>“A new bat?” - Cleveland’s gift receive line.

#### 2.2.2 Archived Stories, and Relationship Development.

Cleveland alongside her sister Columbia is part of a group of shipgirls in the 3rd year class, with their fellow shipmates O'bannon and San Diego making up this group titled _"Big Four of the 3rd Year Class"_ with Cleveland being the lead, the friendgroup almost forming a “Every group got that” stereotype to it... This same group is featured throughout the Silver Wing Foundation Story and has clashed with the game’s main cast in battle, proving victorious.

Throughout Cleveland’s relationship development lines, she calls the commander “Errand Boy”, pretty much as a way to tease the commander as she is kind enough to gift the commander a day of not being called so during the player’s Birthday.

Her entire relationship development revolves around her caring, and very straightforward personality to those close to her and the commander’s experience being a good leader to his fleet, Cleveland’s relationship story with the commander starts with her being very open about herself,  even sharing with the commander her inspiration to be a “Cool Boss” that protects her family. The commander acts very timidly around Cleveland during the early stages of the development lines, with the commander even asking for Cleveland’s permission just to go check the mail inbox.
>“What are you doing looking at me? If you have emails, go take them... I’m not going to take your freedom.”

During the Likeability-Favor stage is when Cleveland realizes her own feelings for the commander, often being unable to calm down whenever she sees the commander’s face, during her love line, she faces the commander with a direct tone, asking the commander how he can become part of her family, being completely oblivious to the weight of her words.

Her post-oath line has her promising that she would treat the commander even closer, by his side, looking after him, promising to protect him, the same way she treats her family.
>“How naive… From now on, I’ll be watching over you closely, Commander, so prepare yourself!”

Her Abyssal development features similar build-up though she's more keen on encouraging you to protect her sisters with her… but a noticeable contrast during oath. As the Commander strives to take on the role that Cleveland has always inspired to be, with the commander promising to take care of Cleveland, giving her a new feeling, as she’s always been the one to protect the ones close to her.
>“Huh? What are you doing? You’ll be protecting me from now on? That’s… A little fresh…I’ll accept that feeling…”

### 2.3 In-game Performance Review

Cleveland is one of the best cruisers in the game with her high stats, though just behind [Helena’s](https://kansenindex.dev/cg_info?id=65e4bdc85a1ad43fa83de0c1) statistical performance, although Helena is more preferred during boss fights due to her boss prioritizing a set of skills that afflicts damage and debuffs, even if the two are of the same single target type. Though unlike her, Cleveland can be acquired very early on during the beginner reroll, and can help the player throughout the majority of the game.

Cleveland has a specialized equipment named “152mm Triple Gun MK-16”, being specialized for Cleveland, differs it from the default 6 inch gun, this euipment buffs her Cut-in skill significantly.

You can read more about her in-game attributes on the Mirahaze wiki for [Black Surge Night](https://darkboom.miraheze.org/wiki/Cleveland)


Sources used:

[Black Surge Night Official Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/660483437928228/) - post-NDA content

[Black Surge Night Official Twitter announcement post](https://x.com/blacksurgenight/status/1394593606262947840?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1394593606262947840%7Ctwgr%5Ef277b39f660b5e253456d4ef9d7ee8fcfd0f38f5%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fkuroshio.wikiru.jp%2F%3FE382AFE383AAE383BCE38396E383A9E383B3E38389)

[Unofficial Dark Boom/Kuroshio: Dark Awakening/Black Surge Night Wiki](https://darkboom.miraheze.org/wiki/Cleveland) - in-game stats, archived images

[Black Surge Night (Brasaj) Cheats Wiki](https://kuroshio.wikiru.jp/?%E3%82%AF%E3%83%AA%E3%83%BC%E3%83%96%E3%83%A9%E3%83%B3%E3%83%89) - archived story, archived voicelines

[Naval History and Heritage Command - USS Cleveland](https://www.history.navy.mil/our-collections/photography/us-navy-ships/alphabetical-listing/c/uss-cleveland--cl-55-0.html) - for history related reference
